---
layout: post
title: Bringing Back Memories&#58; My First App TagOut!
date: 2022-11-02 0:00:00
tags: android app social-media tagout!
categories: fun-posts
thumbnail: assets/img/tagout.jpg
---

<div>

    <p>After playing video games for years, I started wondering how I could make better or more customizable games. So, I began exploring how I could create games on my own using code. I started building classic games like <i>Angry Birds</i>, <i>Flappy Bird</i>, <i>Snake</i>, and <i>Tetris</i>. Wanting to explore other use cases for coding, I pursued Android application development in my high school years. Starting out, I felt completely overwhelmed! I downloaded Android Studio, the official integrated development environment for Google’s Android operating system, and was taken aback by all the thousands of buttons and functionalities. I quickly realized I wasn’t ready to jump headfirst into this new experience.</p>

    <p>And so, with the guidance and inspiration from my brother, I read various informative articles, viewed YouTube tutorial videos, and finally enrolled in a few online Udacity courses on Android application development. For the first few months, I had the task of creating my own apps (as assignments for the courses) and expanding on the starter code to develop additional features. For example, I first developed an app called <i>Miwok</i>, intending to provide beginners and newbies pronunciation and writing lessons to Miwok. (Miwok is a language spoken by members of an indigenous Native American tribe.) After spending days after days taking several courses, I finally decided to get to work and build a social media by myself, without any handholding. Starting out, I slowly tried to build individual pieces of the app, instead of focusing on the entire problem as a whole. As many say, “to make it easier on yourself, break down the problem into smaller, easier to solve problems.” I worked first on developing a login and registration page and implementing the Google Sign-In feature. As I moved onto the posting feature, I tried to focus on designing a friendly user interface and storing post information in my realtime database. As I moved onto the messaging feature, I realized I need to import a vast number of open-source software packages that I never knew about before and store messages and image files in Firebase Storage, a place to upload and store user generated content. Without diving too much into the technical details, the entire process took nearly six months. It was definitely a worthwhile experience, as it provided confidence and pushed me to develop my future apps.</p>

    <p>Today, this app is available on the Google Play Store and called <i>TagOut!</i>. (<b>Isn’t this a great name?</b>) <i>TagOut!</i> is a platform designed to maximize social interaction between users. It also enables users to message with one another and send pictures/documents instantly too!</p>

    <p>If you were interested, see <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.anubhav.helloapplication">this link</a> for more information about <i>TagOut!</i>.</p>

</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/tagout-feature-graphic.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

<div class="caption">
    <i>TagOut! Feature Graphic</i>
</div>
