---
layout: post
title: A Current View of the Ongoing Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic
date: 2023-01-31 0:00:00
tags: covid19 covid19-impacts
categories: civic-issues
thumbnail: assets/img/covid19-1.jpg
---

<div>

    <p>Towards late 2019 and early 2020, the coronavirus disease spread rampant across the world and drastically transformed most aspects of daily life. It changed the way we communicate, care for others, educate our children, work, and so much more! Over the past few years, the world has indeed seen a permanent shift in various forms of life, the economy, medicine, and beyond due to the pandemic.</p>

    <p>For one thing, some increasingly turned towards using video-calling platforms such as Google Meets and Zoom to combat loneliness and social isolation. Recent research studies suggest that many such platforms have design flaws that exhaust the human mind and body. Terming this condition as “Zoom burnout,” experts have taken the medium apart and assessed its individual technical aspects, identifying a few causes behind exhaustion in prolonged video chats. As one cause, spending hours resolving technical bugs like sound issues, glitches, and screen freezes can disrupt our ability to interpret messages and add to our unease, leading to increased mental strain and exhaustion. Additionally, in-person meetings and audio phone conversations allow one to walk around and move wherever they please, but with videoconferencing calls, many desktop computer cameras have a fixed field of view, meaning one has to remain in the same position for the entirety of the conversation: sitting at a desk and staring at a computer screen for hours can naturally take a heavy toll on our well-being and, consequently, lead researchers to believe less mobility and physical activity as one of the biggest reasons for increased fatigue. Nonverbal communications like waving to a friend or indicating how many apples you want by holding up three fingers are interpreted subconsciously in face-to-face meetings, but it’s not as obvious to interpret in a video call setting — more mental processing is required to understand the message. Understanding nonverbal cues and gestures like facial expressions, voice pitch or tone, and body language are harder to process online. According to Stanford University researcher <a href="https://news.stanford.edu/2021/02/23/four-causes-zoom-fatigue-solutions/">Jeremy Bailenson</a>, “If you want to show someone that you are agreeing with them, you have to do an exaggerated nod or put your thumbs up. That adds cognitive load as you’re using mental calories in order to communicate.”</p>

    <p>This pandemic was the first pandemic in which online resources and social media were used extensively to push forward policies and keep people connected, informed, productive, and, most importantly, safe. At the same time, however, the technology we rely on is enabling and amplifying an infodemic that undermined the global response and threatened measures to control the pandemic. Misinformation costs lives, for without the honest dissemination of information, diagnostic tests went unused, vaccine promotion campaigns did not meet their targets, and the virus continued to thrive. Already suffering from mental health issues because of social isolation, people have reported feeling worse due to confusion, conflict, and conspiracy theories spreading quickly in the news media and online. Experts from Stanford University have developed a machine learning model to track the spread of misinformation in social media. The program relies on using individuals’ “susceptibility” to false information as an initial score and their likeliness to spread it to others. They discovered that older adults, youths (especially those highly active on social media), and those with minimal years of educational background seemed to be the most prone to falling for false information. Individuals at political extremes are also more likely to believe information that confirms pre-existing biases. This effect is of particular concern when the information comes from a well-trusted source. Indeed, preventing the spread of misinformation is largely a challenge, especially with the advances in modern technological capabilities. However, in the meantime, it’s important that we consider making progress now towards alleviating its power to twist some of our minds.</p>

    <p>Right now, we’re at the precipice of a new technological age that will have amplifying effects in the following decades. Using novel CRISPR technology, genetic engineering can enable researchers to program biology. This technology powers the very vaccines that have been used to inoculate the world from COVID-19. Researchers have developed a vaccine in record time—a source of inspiration for them to create vaccines for other diseases faster. Momentum behind this technology will push research into resolving new diseases and enabling superhuman capabilities. In fact, experts are currently exploring ways to fight cancer by using the messenger RNA (mRNA) technology within the COVID-19 vaccine: mRNA can stimulate the body’s immune system to identify cancer cells and attack them. See <a href="https://www.cancer.gov/news-events/cancer-currents-blog/2022/mrna-vaccines-to-treat-cancer">this link</a> for more information.</p>

    <p>In the following year, the US and other countries will hopefully realize that working together will help solve problems that are on a global scale. Through seeing the origin and spread of the Delta variant in India or the Omicron variant in South Africa, countries will realize that this is a global problem, not an Indian or African problem. Past events like the Atlanta spa shootings in March 2021 show how inequality and violence will likely increase against East Asians, for people who have lost their loved ones will direct their frustration towards them; in fact, recent studies show that Americans rate East Asians lower in multiple characteristics than otherwise identical East Asian Americans. However, people need to let bygones be bygones since more violence will only breed more violence. Employers will institute more remote-working policies for productivity gains. We will also see more economic safety nets put in place like the COVID stimulus package so that citizens will be less stressed and have more support through their financial hardships.</p>

    <p>At a first glance, it may seem as if people will remember how the pandemic caused an alarming number of deaths (6.3 million worldwide), a global recession, and other negative impacts. However, that is not the case — the pandemic has reshaped the world, making us aware of ideas never considered before and the faults within our own system. This should ultimately be a lesson for us.</p>

    <hr>

    <p>“Coronavirus Disease 2019 (Covid-19).” <i>Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</i>, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 19 Dec. 2022, https://www.cdc.gov/dotw/covid-19/index.html.</p>

</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/covid19-1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
